---
layout: post
title: "Best of 2022"
description: "Favourite albums from 2022"
date: 2022-12-30
feature_image: images/blog_2022chart.png
tags: [aoty]
---
My top 12 albums from this year!  12 only because it fits nicely in a 3x4 grid.  Here's a [Spotify Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/6Bm5QUfBFvAiu7OgXpO82f?si=5ad4ce4c126d4159) with a highlight from each album.  
<h3>1. <em>Cheat Codes</em> by Danger Mouse & Black Thought</h3>

My favourite album from this year.  Danger Mouse's rough soul beats match Black Thought's voice perfectly.  The features are incredible too, with everyone from Russ to Michael Kiwanuka sounding at home.  I have a longer review [here](https://wieben.ca/Cheat-Codes-Review).  

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "No Gold Teeth"</em>
<!--more-->

<h3>2. <em>A Muted Reality</em> by Angles</h3>

Some of the best big band jazz since Mingus.  Incredibly dynamic, exciting performances, and experimental without losing me.  Perfect melodies too, it's so rare for this kind of jazz to be catchy and memorable.

<em>**Genre:** Jazz<br>
**Best track:** "The Hidden Balcony"</em>

<h3>3. <em>Aethiopes</em> by Billy Woods & Preservation</h3>

One of the darkest hip hop albums in the best way possible.  Preservation uses screeches, hums, and samples of anything from gamelan to polish prog to make some of the most interesting beats out there.  Woods' lyrics are on point as always

<em>**Genre:** Experimental Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "Asylum"</em>

<h3>4. <em>Estrela Acesa</em> by Sessa</h3>
An intimate, warm listen.  The music feels small and meticulous, focusing on Sessa's hushed voice and delicate guitar playing.  Brazilian Popular Music with all-around great production, performances, songwriting, and atmosphere.

<em>**Genre:** Música Popular Brasileira, Singer-Songwriter<br>
**Best track:** "Gostar do Mundo"</em>

<h3>5. <em>OPUS MAGNUM</em> by MAMMOTH & Silentjay</h3>
Mammoth instantly became one of my favourite current artists with this album.  He had an incredible vision for this album, and the bravery to make hip hop that sounds this unique. All that being said, he still has the potential to get more raw going forward.  

<em>**Genre:** Drumless Hip Hop, Hip Hop Jazz<br>
**Best track:** "Eccentrik Lovers"</em>

<h3>6. <em>Trees</em> by Avantdale Bowling Club</h3>
Instead of the live jazz feel of their first album, Trees is a lot cleaner and modern-sounding.  Fortunately, Tom Scott remains one of the best at blending hip hop and jazz.  Incredibly thoughtful lyrics too.

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop, Hip Hop Jazz<br>
**Best track:** "Friday Night @ The Liqor Store"</em>

<h3>7. <em>SIM SIM SIM</em> by Bala Desejo</h3>

Everything great about Brazilian music.  Bala Desejo somehow incorporate everything from disco to frevo while maintaining their own sound.  Great melodies and grooves.

<em>**Genre:** Disco, Música Popular Brasileira<br>
**Best track:** "Baile De Máscaras (Recarnaval)"</em>

<h3>8. <em>NO THANK YOU</em> by Little Simz</h3>
Simz manages to follow up Introvert with something safer and more focused. Inflo is such an incredible producer he can afford to go on autopilot, but fortunately, he brings his best on some of these tracks. Still miles beyond the competition.  

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop, Neo Soul<br>
**Best track:** "Broken"</em>

<h3>9. <em>Cocodrillo Turbo</em> by Action Bronson</h3>
Over-the-top underground hip hop.  The incessant crocodile growling could be annoying for some, but Bronson's energy makes it work.  Every track feels distinct in a way that much of modern hip hop doesn't.  

<em>**Genre:** Alternative Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "Estaciones"</em>

<h3>10. <em>Jazz is Dead 15</em> by Adrian Younge, Ali Shaheed Muhammad, & Garrett Saracho</h3>
I figured by album 15 this series would have run out of ideas, but JID 15 is easily one of the best.  Simple production, but this is the most dynamic and excited Adrian and Ali have sounded so far.

<em>**Genre:** Latin Jazz, Jazz Funk<br>
**Best track:** "73"</em>

<h3>11. <em>Ice, Death, Planets, Lungs, Mushrooms, and Lava</em> by King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard</h3>
This is possibly my favourite KGLW album, with such a consistent, pleasant sound.  The whole album feels like an improvised jam, with the band messing with different sounds and feels.

<em>**Genre:** Jam Band, Jazz Rock<br>
**Best track:** "Magma"</em>

<h3>12. <em>Mahal</em> by Toro Y Moi</h3>
Great for much the same reasons as the King Gizzard album.  It doesn't blow me away, but it is an indie record that incorporates jazz, funk, and experimental influences in a great way.

<em>**Genre:** Neo Psychedelia<br>
**Best track:** "Goes By So Fast"</em>
