---
layout: post
title: "Best of 2023"
description: "Favourite albums from 2023"
date: 2023-12-28
feature_image: images/blog_2023chart.png
tags: [aoty]
---
My top 12 albums from this year!  12 only because it fits nicely in a 3x4 grid.  Here's a [Spotify Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/6cewNekXBw6yXreSIeuaKE?si=305848a45efb416e) with a highlight from each album.  
<h3>1. <em>Curyman</em> by Rogê</h3>

Arthur Verocai, arguably Brazil's most acclaimed arranger, has been experiencing a carrer rennaisance lately.  After he appeared on [*Mood Valiant* by Hiatus Kaiyote](https://wieben.ca/Mood-Valiant-Review) and *Talk Memory* by BADBADNOTGOOD in 2021, I've been following him very closely.  Usually his intricate, colourful arrangements can single-handedly save a song for me.  

But when I first listenened to *Curyman*, I found I wasn't listening to Verocai's horns and strings.  Rogê is an incredible singer and guitarist.  He is as good, if not better than the 1970s samba-rock legends he is clearly inspired by.  The acoustic guitar and percussion are so tight, I can't sit still when I listen to this record.  Rogê's vocals are both delicate and rhythmic, fitting the music perfectly.  The dry drum production sometimes remind me of modern neo-soul, but overall, *Curyman* perfectly nails the sound of 1970s Brazilian pop.  Overall a gorgeous, fun record that has overcome the language barrier to become my favourite album of this year. 

<em>**Genre:** Música Popular Brasileira, Samba-Rock<br>
**Best track:** "Existe Uma Voz"</em>
<!--more-->

<h3>2. <em>Glorious Game</em> by El Michael's Affair & Black Thought</h3>

Black Thought nearly got my Album of the Year two years in a row.  His consistency as an artist is insane, pulling together such a cohesive project after *[Cheat Codes](https://wieben.ca/Cheat-Codes-Review)* came out just last year.  Featuring instrumentals from Soul group El Michael's Affair, *Glorious Game* has a very unique sound when compared to most sample-based hip hop beats.  It sounds like a harder, chopped up version of Curtis Mayfield or a Norman Whitfield production.  

Black Thought's lyricism is incredible as always.  *Glorious Game* doesn't feel like it has a planned-out message, but it doesn't need one with such a consistent rapper and such a unique sound.  

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop, Psychedelic Soul<br>
**Best track:** "Protocol"</em>

<h3>3. <em>Heavy Vibrato</em> by Elzhi & Oh No</h3>

Rapper/producer colab albums feel like a recipe for success.  *Heavy Vibrato* has a dark, forboding mood supported by Elzhi's serious tone and Oh No's experimental, off-kilter instrumentation.  I haven't had enough time with this record to get into the lyrics, but the dissonant vibraphone chords and trippy effects and processing make *Heavy Vibrato* a very interesting listen.  

<em>**Genre:** Experimental Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "Trick Dice"</em>

<h3>4. <em>Voice Notes</em> by Yazmin Lacey</h3>
Nocturnal RnB with very spacey production.  Many of the tracks here have a dub influence, delving into reggae rhythms and long delays.  Lacey is a very honest, introspective songwriter who delivers with a gorgeous voice.  

<em>**Genre:** RnB, Neo Soul<br>
**Best track:** "Pass it Back"</em>

<h3>5. <em>Ritual</em> by Stik Figa & The Expert</h3>
I've already written a longer review for *Ritual* [here](https://wieben.ca/Ritual-Review).  The Expert's production makes this album for me, especially the way he uses delay feedback.  

<em>**Genre:** Jazz Rap, Psychedelia<br>
**Best track:** "Uknowhut?"</em>

<h3>6. <em>Leather Blvd.</em> by B. Cool-Aid</h3>
A vibey, relaxed Neo Soul record with whispered vocals from  Pink Siifu, Liv.e, Jimetta Rose, and many other incredible artists.  It feels like a sleepier, looser, and jazzier version of *Voodoo* by D'Angelo.  It is a bit on the long side, but still a very great release from the B. Cool-Aid project.  

<em>**Genre:** Neo Soul<br>
**Best track:** "Cnt Go Back ( Tell Me )"</em>

<h3>7. <em>Jazz is Dead 18</em> by Adrian Younge & Tony Allen</h3>
Raw, improvised jazz featuring the late Tony Allen.  I've found Adrian Younge's Jazz is Dead series to get a little samey after so many releases, but this one stands out among the rest.  A great addition to Tony Allen's incredible legacy as a drummer.  

<em>**Genre:** Afrobeat, Jazz Fusion<br>
**Best track:** "Makoko"</em>

<h3>8. <em>Quaranta</em> by Danny Brown</h3>
Danny Brown's second (and in my opinion) best release of the year.  Brown's music is usually tempermental, experimental, and so over-the-top it's sometimes hard to enjoy.  Hearing him try a different, more subdued sound on some of these tracks was a breath of fresh air.  Overall, I find *Quaranta* to be his most diverse and listenable album so far.  

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "Dark Sword Angel"</em>

<h3>9. <em>Fly or Die Fly or Die Fly or Die ((world war))</em> by Jaimie Branch</h3>
An insanely creative album, that I have admittedly had trouble fully getting into.  An experimental jazz release with vocals like poetry, and diverse instrumentation that flows between electronic synths, bowed strings, traditional jazz ensemble, and even american folk.  Even if it is a bit flawed, it is some of the most inspiring, interesting music I've heard this year.  Sadly, Jaimie Branch passed away before the release of *world war*, with her colaborators coming together to complete the album for her.  

<em>**Genre:** Avant-Garde Jazz, Jazz Fusion<br>
**Best track:** "take over the world"</em>

<h3>10. <em>Raw Lessons</em> by Spectacular Diagnostics</h3>
The second release on this list from the underground hip hop label, Rucksack.  Spectacular Diagnostics is a hip hop producer, who brings dozens of talented features on board for this project.  Much like *Ritual*, it takes influence from psychedelia, but places more emphasis on the features and the loops.  

<em>**Genre:** Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "Class"</em>

<h3>11. <em>Sundown</em> by Eddie Chacon</h3>
John Carroll Kirby should be credited as a cowriter with how important his production is to the success of *Sundown*.  This album is a mellow, soothing listen with Stevie-esque bass synths, modern mixing touches, and vocals almost as smooth as Bill Withers.  I never would have guessed Eddie Chacon was a 60 year old white man.  

<em>**Genre:** Neo Soul, Smooth Soul<br>
**Best track:** "The Morning Sun"</em>

<h3>12. <em>Maps</em> by Billy Woods & Kenny Segal</h3>
Billy Woods is one of my favourite rappers currently, but I perfered the production on *[Aethiopes](https://wieben.ca/Aethiopes-Review)* or Brass to what Kenny Segal brings here.  The songs are overall pretty short, and some still don't hold my attention.  That being said, *Maps* is still a very good release, just not up to my high expectations for Woods.  

<em>**Genre:** Experimental Hip Hop<br>
**Best track:** "NYC Tapwater"</em>

2023 WOOOOOO!!!!