---
layout: post
title: "Exegeis and Critique of Hume's 2nd Enquiry"
description: "Exegeis and Critique of Hume's 2nd Enquiry"
date: 2024-09-23
feature_image: 
tags: [philosophy]
---

David Hume's *An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals* outlines his observations about morals, based on his understanding of human nature.  He appeals simply to common sense.  No God or complicated epistimological frameworks are used in his arguments.  He then goes to categorize morals by the immediacy of their sentiment.  The most fundamental virtues, Hume describes as being immediately and intensely correct.  Virtues like these are agreeable; anybody would agree that benevolence is a good trait, so therefore, it must be a good trait.  Hume also outlines the concept of usefulness, and how it relates to morals.  Agreeableness and usefulness are both basis for moral value.  Usefulness seems to have a circular logic, where usefulness is relevant because it is agreeable to us, and it is agreeable to us because it is useful.  Hume is fine with this logic, because it is  impossible to fathom a way that usefulness could not be morally valuable.  

<!--more-->

Consider how we praise a benevolent leader, and detest a tyrannical one.  We can observe universal praise for that which is good for society, and universal blame for that which is bad for it.  Had we no sense of good or bad, we would see only indifference (60).  Even though we may disagree on complex societal issues, this is due to information differences, not moral ones.  Wherever a consensus is reached, a shared moral regard is found.  The fact that praise and blame are universal reactions proves that the moral sense is an intrinsic part of human nature.  

With these core tennants, Hume also explores justice and citizenship, and reasons that being an obedient citizen is useful and therefore morally correct.  Justice itself is not a virtue, Hume clarifies, but a good concept because it is useful to society.  Hume describes dozens of other virtues, all of which have varying levels of immediacy and importance.  In order to be a good person, one must cultivate appropriate levels of all of these virtues.  Hume also equates the height of goodness to the divine, where humans who reach maximum goodness seem godlike.  Again, this is based only on sentiment; Hume is not making an argument for theism.  

The circularity of usefulness is fine because it is still grounded in sentimnet, but I do not understand why usefulness is then a distinct concept to agreeableness.  Perhaps the nuance was lost to me, but I think agreeableness sufficiently explains all virtues Hume desrcibes, as long as we are willing to detatch from cultural biases.  Hume admits that some of his moral claims can be difficult to agree with, when he describes “a quality of the mind agreeable to or approved of by every one who considers or contemplates it” (87).  By requiring we be considerate and contemplative, he gives us time to root out any initial unfounded disaproval.  I suppose then, that usefulness is a shortcut to help the reader in this mental process.  If I were not being so charitable, I would say that Hume appeals to usefulness only when agreeableness fails, which points to a weakness in his argument.  To base some virtues in usefulness and others in agreeableness seems arbitrary.  I think though, that he chooses between these two compatible concepts depending on what will be faster for the reader to understand.  Ultimately, this is not a flaw in his logic, but a literal tactic.  

My main point of contention in this book comes with Hume's opening.  He paints the picture of an 'antagonist', who is 'irksome, disingenuous, blind, and vehement' (3).  This kind of person argues for the sake of argument, and acts smarter than they actually are.  Hume has become so frustrated by these kinds of interations, that he advises you simply ignore these people.  Eventually, they will grow so weary they have no choice but to "come over to the side of common sense and reason" (4).  This advice seems to go against his advocacy for virtues of friendship and humanity though.  Should we really ignore other humans simply because they are irksome to us?  Isn't it wrong to intentionally cause someone to feel so weary?  Perhaps it is possible for the virtuous actor to actually help these people 'come over'?  I plan on writing more about this, to prove exactly how this social situation can be helped.  

Hume, David. *An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals* (n.p., 2021), https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B0954RPYM3?ref=ppx_yo2ov_dt_b_fed_asin_title. 