---
layout: post
title: "am i crazy"
description: 
date: 2025-09-15
feature_image: 
tags: [philosophy]
---

Im not crazy, everyone else is.  

Why are you still smiling? Are you living your dream, with an imagination so weak you can’t imagine anywhere but here?  Would you coast on “I made it” until the world passes you by?  And here is no longer anywhere to be proud of?  Others will look and see you there, in the past.    Comforted by the collection of things you’ve made into your home.  Other people’s things: famous media, once-novel technologies, branded clothes.  You as the living host for pride.    

And yes, they may be your favourite things, but you ought not be proud that you own them.  Let your possessions fall away and maybe you could exist anywhere.  

But before considering how one might live with nothing, first consider why live at all?  It was my parents who willed me into existence, not my own desire for life.  Culture curated my preferences and my mannerisms.  Privileged circumstance showed where I might be valuable, and disadvantage became my sorest points of self.  

What is truly mine? 

Maybe nothing at all.  And yet, anything could be mine.  I could buy a car if I save enough money.  I could be happy if I stay with my lover.  

So often I catch myself wanting none of that.  I don’t want anything.  I want nothing to lose, such that everything feels like it is being gained.  Every second I exist is time being generously added to my life by the universe that wills me to experience it.  Everything I learn, everything I use,(from the car that I drive to the body that I am!) Is for the sake of the world.  As I so vehemently oppose pain and hatred, I ought to become healing and love.  

And it is so hard.  
Everyone else is crazy.  They just don’t want my love! Ugh.

Or do I come off as the worst person ever and I'm the crazy one.