---
layout: post
title: "Inopia Retrospective"
description: "Behind the scenes on Sam Hansell's Inopia"
date: 2023-12-30
feature_image: images/inopia_cover.png
tags: [thoughts]
---
1. "Can You Blame Me For Charon?"
Sam Hansell: Production, Writer, Engineering, Guitar, Bass, Vocals, Synths
Wieben: Executive Production, Mixing, Engineering, Effects
Manuel Thomas: Drums
Mary-Maria Bourdeau: Piano, Viola

Initially called "Hospitable Death", "Charon" was initially one of my least favourite songs on the album.  The demo felt too fast and happy for my tastes, and I didn't realize how dynamic the songwriting actually was.  "Charon"'s structure probably changed the most out of any track; the intro, outro, and pre-bridge transition were not yet concieved of.  The tempo speedup was also missing in the demos, leading to quite a bit of trouble when tracking the drums.  The rest of tracking went fairly smoothly.  We ended up cutting around 3 guitar parts, and the piano and viola were repurposed from a take of the title track.   

<!--more-->

Because this track started as one of my least favourites, it was the last to be mixed.  I think this was accidentially a great thing, because at this point, I had a great sense of how the album should sound.  It was
*Inopia* has been the first project I've been genuinely proud of.  It has been such an honour to work with an artist as HANDSOME as SAM HANSELL.  It's not often such a young artist has so many great ideas, AND the ambititon to turn it into a debut album like *Inopia*.  Sam has nowhere to go but up, and I'm happy to have been here to support him as his carreer continues to grow.  

This album also wouldn't have been possible without the GREAT EMANUELLA STRATAS!  She is the most ambitious person I know, and Mistapes Records is essentially her project.  She brought all of us together to create an incredible album, rollout, and release party, and she is continuing to do great things with Mistapes this upcoming year.  

Finally, if not for Prof Jay Hodgson, *Inopia* probably would never have been completed.  He entrusted me with access to his studio, and even I had to bring my own gear, *Inopia* wouldn't sound half as good without that space.  His support mastering the album also made such a massive difference.  

